Monologue EDUCATION
3530904/20003
Vladimir Andreev
Nelson Mandela once said that education is the most powerful weapon which people can use to change the world. Education is not just a means of acquiring knowledge but it is also a tool for personal growth and development. 
In the Russian Federation, children usually start primary school at the age of 6 or 7 and start secondary school at the age of 11. Compulsory education begins at the age of 6 and finishes at the age of 18. These ages seem appropriate for ensuring that children receive a solid education foundation. There is
state education and private education in Russia. State education is free while private education charges tuition fees. While both have their advantages and disadvantages state education is generally considered better as it provides equal access to education for all people. Most people in Russia enroll in
higher education. However, they have to pay tuition fees unless they have a scholarship or are studying at a state-funded university. Exams are more common than continuous assessment in Russia. Unfortunately, many students in Russia do not pass an exam with flying colors and drop out of courses before graduating
from university due to financial or personal reasons. This highlights the need for more support and resources for students to ensure they can get a degree.
The educational system in the United States is quite different from the system in Russia. In the USA children start primary school at the age of 5 or 6 and start secondary school at the age of 11 or 12. Compulsory education finishes at the age of 16 or 18 depending on the state. Private education is common in the USA and tuition fees can be very high. In contrast, the educational system in Germany is more similar to Russian system. Children start primary
school at the age of 6 and start secondary school at the age of 10 or 11. Compulsory education finishes at the age of 18. Both state and private education are available but state education is generally considered better. Higher education is free for all students. 
My favorite teacher was school is my Russian teacher. She was well prepared and good at answering questions, explained things clearly, kept students interested and threated students like unique individuals. And she never created a dog eat dog situation. Therefore, I was very happy when I attended her lessons.
Distance learning has its pros and cons. One of the advantages of distance learning is that students can study at their own pace which allows them to manage their time more effectively. Apart from that, it offers a range of activities that can keep students interested and motivated. Teachers can use
different methods to teach students, provide them with individual learning programmes and use lectures from free internet resources to support the
curriculum and don’t burn the midnight oil. On the other hand, distance learning can be challenging because it lacks face-to-face contact. It can also be difficult to keep students engaged and motivated. 
Higher education brings enormous benefits to society. Studying for a degree can give an edge over non-graduates. So, graduates expect a high starting salary and getting fringe benefits. In reality, some students get into dept because they take a loan to finance their studies. That is why I think that
university should be free for everyone.
I have chosen Peter the Great St. Petersburg Polytechnic University because of some reasons. To begin with, it is located in St. Petersburg. Besides, there are many great professors and students here. It has a spacious campus, a state-of the-art computer laboratory and excellent sports facilities.  As a
result, I am very glad to study at SPbPU.
In conclusion, I do believe that education is very important in our world. If people hit the books, our society will become much better.
Active Vocabulary: 30, Grammar Structures: 6, Linkers: 12. Total: 634 words.

